202012011552 Big O.md, before:

---
title: Big O Notation: Using Not-Boring Math to Measure Code's Efficiency
date: 2020-12-01 15:52
---

Big O is how we measure an algorithm, either by considering its time or [[202012021203 Space Complexity in Big O]] requirements (often called 'complexity' by high-power brains).

it makes for an even playing field. In [[202012021151 Big O Expressions]], the finer details are less important than the general gist of what's going on.

Big O expressions often need to be [[202012021139 Simplifying n|simplified]].

Big O is helpful but is only a tool for analysis. It identifies possible [[202012021213 Case|best / average / worst case]] scenarios, but it's only one lens through which to view a solution in.

It's best not to get too caught up on what the Big O of an algorithm is. Optimise later!

> A great engineer knows how to strike the right _balance_ between runtime, space, implementation, time, maintainability and readability. [#cakelabsinc-BigNotationUsing2020]

---

[#cakelabsinc-BigNotationUsing2020]: Cake Labs, Inc. (2020). Big O Notation: Using not-boring math to measure code’s efficiency. Retrieved 2 December 2020, from https://www.interviewcake.com/article/javascript/big-o-notation-time-and-space-complexity?course=fc1&section=algorithmic-thinking

---

#algorithm #bigO #tools #measurement

Commit message:

📝 (bigO): watch udemy lesson
Neagoie, A. (2020a, December). 23. Section Overview. Udemy. Retrieved from
https://www.udemy.com/course/master-the-coding-interview-data-structures-algorithms/learn/lecture/12133482#overview

Neagoie, A. (2020b, December). Master the Coding Interview: Data Structures +
Algorithms. Retrieved 9 December 2020, from Udemy website:
https://www.udemy.com/course/master-the-coding-interview-data-structures-algorithms/

202012011552 Big O.md, after:

---
title: Big O Notation: Using Not-Boring Math to Measure Code's Efficiency
date: 2020-12-01 15:52
---

> Any programmer, given enough time, can solve a problem. What matters, though, is how well the problem is solved. [#neagoie-23SectionOverview2020]

Big O Asymptotic Analysis (or just Big O for short) is how we measure an algorithm, either by considering its time or [[202012021203 Space Complexity in Big O]] requirements (often called 'complexity' by high-power brains).

It makes for an even playing field. In [[202012021151 Big O Expressions]], the finer details are less important than the general gist of what's going on.

Big O expressions often need to be [[202012021139 Simplifying n|simplified]].

Big O is helpful but is only a tool for analysis. It identifies possible [[202012021213 Case|best / average / worst case]] scenarios, but it's only one lens through which to view a solution in.

It's best not to get too caught up on what the Big O of an algorithm is. Optimise later!

> A great engineer knows how to strike the right _balance_ between runtime, space, implementation, time, maintainability and readability. [#cakelabsinc-BigNotationUsing2020]

---

[#cakelabsinc-BigNotationUsing2020]: Cake Labs, Inc. (2020). Big O Notation: Using not-boring math to measure code’s efficiency. Retrieved 2 December 2020, from https://www.interviewcake.com/article/javascript/big-o-notation-time-and-space-complexity?course=fc1&section=algorithmic-thinking

[#neagoie-23SectionOverview2020]: Neagoie, A. (2020). 23. Section Overview. Presented at the Master the Coding Interview: Data Structures + Algorithms. Retrieved from https://www.udemy.com/course/master-the-coding-interview-data-structures-algorithms/learn/lecture/12133482#overview

---

#algorithm #bigO #tools #measurement
